 Types of Home Loan:
______________________

Various types of home loans are available in India. They are described below:

(i) Home Purchase Loan:
------
These are the basic home loans for the purchase of a new house. These loans are given for

(ii) Home Improvement Loan:
--------
These loans are given for implementing repair works and renovations in a home that has already
been purchased by the customer. It may be requested for external works like structural repairs,
waterproofing or internal works like tiling and flooring, plumbing, electrical work, painting,
etc.


(iii) Home Construction Loan:
----------
These loans are available for the construction of a new home. The documentsrequired by the
banks for granting customer a home construction loan are slightly different from the
homepurchase loans. Depending upon the fact that when customer bought the land, the lending
party would or would not include the land cost as a component, to value the total cost of the
property.

(iv) Home Extension Loan:
-------------
Home Extension Loans are given for expanding or extending an existing home. For example,
addition of an extra roometc. For this kind of loan, customer needs to have requisite approvals
from the relevant municipal corporation.

(v) Land Purchase Loan:
----------
Land Purchase Loans are available for purchase of land for both home construction or
investment purposes. Therefore, customer can be granted this loan even if customer is not
planning to construct any building on it in the near future. However, customer has to complete
construction within tenure of three years on the same land.

(vi) Bridge Loan:
--------
Bridge Loans are designed for people who wish to sell the existing home andpurchase another.
The bridge loan helps finance the new home, until a buyer isfound for the old home.

(vii) Balance Transfer:
---------
Balance Transfer loans help customer to pay off an existing home loan and avail the option of
a loan with a lower rate of interest. Customer can transfer the balance ofthe existing home
loan to any another bank.

(viii) NRI Home Loan:
---------
This is a special home loan scheme for the Non-Resident Indians (NRI) who wishes to build or
buy a home or land property in India. They are offered attractive housing finance plans with
suitable reimbursement options by many banks in the country.